# Narrative_MalachiWalker

Malachi Walker 
Morgan Benton
Programming and Problem Solving- ISAT 252
May 3rd, 2021
Semester Experience
	To begin I’d like to say that, looking back, I was interested in only a couple of things coming into this class. Those were: getting a good grade in the class and finding out if programming is really as cool as I was expecting it to be. While one of those goals still remains to be seen, as of the time writing this, I can safely say for sure, is that what I got out of taking this class, is that programming just isn’t for me. When I was a freshman in high school I was just introduced into the real guts of computers and while that interested me at the time, high school freshman me and college freshman me are pretty much two separate people. In this narrative, I will walk through my spring semester and try to answer some of those questions. 

	So the beginning of the semester started off pretty well, I feel. I was very nervous all of the time, as is my brand, and for pretty much all of January, that we were here, and part of February, I had high anxiety, but that really didn’t stop me from being able to go to classes and I did pretty well. In programming I started out with a pretty rigid and good schedule. Every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, I would wake up at around 9 or 9:30 am and work on programming until class, and then after class has ended I will continue to work until I get lunch with my friends or I go to class at 12:45. This is when we did the websites and everyday by 10:30 my room would be up and busy like it was 4 in the afternoon or something. At the start of the semester, I went to our end-of-the-week team meetings and was pretty confident with what I would share. I could also ask questions that would take up the time in our meetings and I’d feel pretty good about that. However, after the website stage of the class was over I finally noticed that I had no real goals to accomplish in class. Remember, I only really wanted a good grade and to find out if programming was cool, I had never thought about what I would do if I knew how to actually code. However, despite this, I went on with FreeCodeCamp and could continue my schedule I set up at the beginning of the semester, and I did that for however long and actually wrote notes and even planned to write code based off of what I learned in FreeCodeCamp for that day; this would not last long, and unfortunately, I never got to it.

	March finally arrived and for one reason or another, I fell into a deep depression. For days on end, my roommate would go home and, at least, I would be alone for a weekend. This was around the time I would start missing classes. I was unable to sleep at night and despite settling down at regular times that I was used to I could and would stay awake for hours beyond that and I went to sleep at around 3 in the morning most nights for a while. Since then, life in general has been hard. Thankfully, one of my classes had just ended, because it was a half semester course, so I had 3 classes to worry about, but worry about them I did not. To put it bluntly, I started slacking off. Instead of working on homework everyday after my physics class, I crammed it all into Thursday when I went to my professor’s office hours. For biotech, I only barely finished assignments at best the day before it was due and at worst when it was already too late. Finally, for programming, I no longer woke up at 9 in the morning to get ready for class. I stopped working on FreeCodeCamp for weeks at a time and at the end-of-the-week team meetings, I could barely talk. How could I? I was disappointing myself and anyone who would end up finding out, which is no one until now. Outside of school, I ended up neglecting my hygiene, for one, and to skip gross details, it was not awesome. I also majorly stopped eating. Whereas, before March, I would eat twice a day most days. Afterwhich, I would only once a day and that was at the end of the day when I was forced to by my friends. This part of my semester was probably one of the biggest things to happen to me my first year of college. I never had problems with depression before and until very recently, as of the writing of this narrative, I didn’t really make any good progress in getting better. 
	Here we are at the end of the semester. In the scope of my goals I set throughout the semester, I could only feel it was a job half done; if that makes sense. I at least answered my questions I had, eventually. My goals changed for this class over the course of the semester. Of course I had my base “good grade” and “try programming” goals, but then as I found out programming was a free-for-all, so I had to find out what “try programming” really meant. I answered that with FreeCodeCamp and it worked for a while, but with my predicament, my goals had to change once again to be able to attend class and start doing FreeCodeCamp again. All of my changing goals had varying levels of success, but I at least never straight up failed at one. That being said as I sunk deeper into depression the bar of what’s technically a success became a lot lower. For one, I still have the website from the beginning of the semester; I have set up a python virtual environment; and I have written actual Hello, World! code in python. While those are the only concrete artifacts I have from this semester, I hope that with the context given that, it is enough. For failures, while I did say I never totally failed at a goal, I also never really succeeded in a satisfying way. I definitely could have done more this semester and I am in some way disappointed with how I let this semester pass me by. If there was one thing I learned from this semester is that this is real life and what I do, or what I don’t do, has actual consequences. It’s hard, but force yourself to get up, because you can’t drag down everyone else when you sink. I feel that I’ve definitely grown as a result of this semester. I’ve never had an experience like this before. I still have no idea what I want to do in life. All I know still is I like science and that is as far as it goes. As a grade, I would love an A, but on the grounds of if I deserve an A, the answer is no. All I can hope for is the next best grade a B.
